hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Holly wood the Director of Business
Development for the bosen protocol bozen
is a fair exchange protocol that enables
a decentralized commercial exchange of
any physical thing without central
intermediaries or trusted counterparties
in this conversation Holly and I spoke
about the differences between working
with Grassroots creatives and big Brands
how nft launches have similar Vibes to
Brand launches for verticals like
streetwear the prevalence of In-House
web 3 teams and staff at Big brands
fidgetals or Digi physical items and so
much more just just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens that nothing
should be taken as Financial advice and
that the host or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode with that
said I really enjoyed chatting with
Holly and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
Holly wood the Director of Business
Development for the boson protocol first
of all congrats on your new role and
welcome to the Pod Holly hey thank you
so much Dylan I'm very excited to be
here it's super cool to have this
conversation yeah I'm very excited to
have this conversation as well because
the boson protocol is kind of the
intersection of the digital and the
physical but before we delve way into
that I think you have a really cool
background and career which has
seemingly been focused on the Arts from
Fashion to galleries to Interior Design
to content creation so can you just
share a little bit about some of your
background and some of the really
interesting companies you've worked for
and founded yeah for sure so yeah you're
quite right before joining the web free
space I was spent 20 years 20 plus years
my career has been in the creative
industry so I started that in the
fashion industry working as a stylist
for The Independent Newspaper broadsheet
here in the UK and we're Super Lucky to
start really my fashion Network at that
stage of my career I've gone on to work
with various contemporary artists and
just really just before joining web free
space I was the founder of wood Society
of the Arts where we specialized in
connecting artists with Brands but also
working on kind of some really
interesting public art engagement pieces
so I'm I've done a lot of work with
emerging artists and creatives and so my
role then at wearable with head of
artist relationships working with new
nft creators and artists like entering
and joining kind of like the web 3
Revolution yeah that's really cool I
want to dig in a little bit into
wearable but before we do that do you
remember the first time you heard about
cryptocurrencies whether it was Bitcoin
or ethereum and uh what were kind of
your initial thoughts normally it's like
when did he hear about nft
I was definitely aware of like not much
much earlier but I didn't really do it
on every research but it would have been
Bitcoin and then like nft they became
super curious and really did all my
learnings around cryptocurrency through
like you know the format of digital art
piqued my interest I thought this has
been an amazing you know new opportunity
for artists and anything really that can
support those different kind of creative
processes and outcomes I'm gonna be very
like excited to learn about so yeah
that's how I kind of like learned really
about crypto and blockchain just because
I really wanted to understand like that
smart contract layer I felt like it was
super important and really honor the
um validity or you know how nfts were
actually different to traditional art
forms or creative practice that that
creative layer of the smart contract and
blockchain is integral to me so I'm you
know I've been a big fan of multiple
chains and you know supported the
onboarding to various chains but of
course at both times we are working with
polygon which are very cool it's no
surprise that like for instance Nike is
also working with polygon I think it
makes a lot of sense of uh and there to
uh ethereum based changing I agree I
think multi-chain is the future of the
blockchain worlds that we're moving into
and I also think that your Genesis is
really interesting I came into the
blockchain space in 2017 because I got
excited about tokenizing everything but
in 2020 something changed and nfts
really created a brand new opportunity
for people especially creators and
artists and creatives to kind of have
autonomy over their work and to be given
a new way to connect with their
community so you entered the NF t space
in 2020 and you mentioned that it was
people that really kind of opened your
eyes kind of but what was it for you and
your your kind of history that really
made it click was it some of the fashion
brands that you'd worked with was it
some of the artists who did you really
kind of internalize could benefit from
this nft technology and smart contracts
when things finally started kind of
rolling for you in 2020 I guess
projects the nft scene was very much
around that hype cycle I remember very
clearly being in the clubhouse room when
four dates were dropping and everyone
going crazy and taking up as much as
they could and trying to work out
exactly how to you know connect wallets
and make their first collection purchase
um I try to remember who it was who
collected all the pancakes she did it
was such a dope thing to do I was I
always think of that I remember who it
was in the space but it was one of the
incredible kind of like female leaders
of the space but yeah I think you know
few projects was definitely something I
was very interested in the mechanics of
like building a tool really to kind of
like gather your community obviously I'd
work with a lot of Street Wear Brands
before so it kind of felt like a similar
Synergy happening especially with things
like broad apes and crypto funds they
had a kind of a similar energy and vibe
to that audience and so the the idea
that you could be a very emerging talent
and develop like a collection that would
have Global kind of like appeal you know
I'd set on a half hour the clubhouse
room listening to people kind of like
waiting for drops or getting excited for
the next iteration of a project or I do
specifically remember like the tethos
rooms for instance with tell Wilson's
such a fun like nft series of work to
collect because it was very affordable
because it was you know obviously a very
different market conditions for that
particular blockchain but yeah no I mean
I think I have been so fortunate to work
with lots of different fashion brands
through my career and like having more
recently advised lots of them on the web
free space one thing you know I'm often
kind of like driving home as how
important it is to work with work-free
Native creatives so actually when we
worked uh on the Givenchy nft project it
was actually the team there that felt
forward the idea of the collaboration
with felt Dean and I was so impressed
because saw a Big Brand to kind of look
at working with such like raw
underground talent but you know the felt
in community is not a huge Community
it's not super well known but they're
incredible so yeah so the nft
collaboration for the second uh Givenchy
project was with elzene and also this
awesome Street web brand bistroy but
yeah I'm always like you know talking
about working with Native web 3 Talent
essentially you know I think for it to
feel authentic it had to being part of
like the origin story or you know people
that kind of people or artists of
creators that really understand the
space I think that is a kind of an
essential ingredient
you you kind of pulled on two different
threads that I wanna I wanna go down
with your response right there and the
two threads were the benefits that nfts
can offer creators and also for Brands
so I think we'll start with my first
question and from your perspective what
are the unique benefits that nfts can
offer creators artists curators and just
general creatives in general there's so
many opportunities isn't there in it and
I think that was you know one of the
things that really drew me to the space
was that we're really building this
thing as we're like evolving in the
space
what's possible now is you know only
possible because someone built it
yesterday so you want to build this new
thing today that will be possible
tomorrow and and so many Industries like
that and like uh it's just simply not
like that there's these processes
there's like hierarchical systems in
play who gets coverage who you hear
about and web3 completely flipped that
whole script so it created an
opportunity for artists like you know
Malia obedi who tune the brilliant
writer and activist an artist in her own
right before coming into the web through
space but web3 gave her the opportunity
to develop women rise as a project and
really just that gave her a different or
sort of wider platform bigger platform
to you know have those conversations
that she was already engaged in so it
yeah it just gave her
her kind of call to action like wider
response and I would say some of the
other like benefits for artists you know
that in sort of fashion or e-commerce
retailers will think of their customers
as as customers as clients as consumers
whereas in web free we you know we
always use the term community and that's
because there is a genuine exchange of
expression and interest it's a very I
felt that it has always been actually a
very equal exchange the artists pretty
much exists because of its community and
the community
therefore has like this really different
Dynamic relationship with that creative
with the creative output with the
creative process so yeah I think there's
lots of different opportunities that
have been created there that we haven't
seen before and I think I in doing my
deep dive into your background I think
you were also part of launching an nft
series yourself
[Laughter]
a series of different artists so I was
really thinking about curating artists
but actually the reason that at that
point we couldn't really develop that is
that there hadn't been the development
yet in smart contracts for the artist to
be able to Mint and do split royalties
so the curator there was no way
um so this was before foundation before
open seat on wearable did kind of like
split contracts so actually and I just
didn't feel that it was authentic for me
as a curator to Min an artist's work
because the whole beauty of it is that
it's that you know it's on chain forever
so I was yeah it was an ethical debate
that I had with myself that's really
interesting sometimes when I take
photography I think about putting it on
chain as an nft myself but there's a big
weight in responsibility that comes with
creating artwork and putting it on chain
because it is somewhat permanent you
know as long as the hash is pointing
towards where the image is saved online
then this nft will live on chain forever
especially so if it's using some sort of
decentralized network like ipfs or store
J or anything like that so that's that's
a really interesting conundrum that you
brought up and I also think highlights
the value that you put on the artist and
providing them with the most benefit
that this technology can give them so
while we have
your concern and care for the creative
and the understanding of what this Tech
can provide them in their Community I'm
curious what does the opposite side of
the coin look like for like luxury goods
partners and fashion brands what are the
sort of things that these entities are
thinking about when they're talking
about nfts and blockchain Technology my
experience has been really partnering
when I've been talking to Brands and a
lot of these Luxury Partners they
genuinely want to do this the right way
you know it's not an Optics thing for
them they genuinely want to engage in
Innovation for creatives and creators I
think that's why a lot of them are being
very mindful it's not all to do with
kind of like brand Prestige or
storytelling it's because they genuinely
want to take their time because they've
invested heavily because they see this
as long term a long-term conversation
nation that they're gonna have with
their audiences and as we all are
learning as we go along some of this is
organic some of it can be connected and
filtered through existing like networks
but a lot of the brands where I've seen
them be super experimental especially in
the early days with everything that
YouTube were doing for instance
exploring like different game options
different art collection options
different collectible series with super
plastic working with sandbox working
with yeah just lots of different
partners I definitely see that there is
real intent in
learning why and how this is different
and what role they might play in that
conversation and it's been like such a
privilege to be able to be part of a lot
of those conversations one of the
benefits of us being this really small
creative Community right now is that we
have all these amazing luxury
professionals working in Innovation
teams and marketing teams some in
specialist web 3 departments talking and
like working very closely with like
digital fashion brands emerging artists
designers it feels like a very nascent
isn't the right word fervent that's not
a great word either
there's a lot happening that's great
yeah being a writer it can feel
frustrating at times when when the word
to describe the process is on the tip of
your tongue but you can't really pull it
out yes but I guess kind of like leaning
into that I'm going to ask you to to
maybe Double Down is Ferrari and Versace
and all these other brands is are we at
a place where pretty much any big brand
name that we hear of especially when it
comes to luxury goods they have somebody
on their team that is looking into web3
is the technology so ubiquitous that
we're at that point now yeah 100 think
we do like I say that often they'll fall
into like an innovation team or in the
marketing team many of the like bigger
fashion brands have in-house web 3 teams
now which is fantastic because it takes
such a long time to kind of learn their
I was gonna say learn the basics but
yeah learn kind of how to optimize the
web 3 opportunity there's like so many
different ways right you know you could
look at authentication you could look at
Community Building there's so many
different functionalities of web3 that
it makes sense to have these kind of
like dedicated teams who are really
exploring what the actual or identifying
what the actual opportunity is for each
brand because each different brand is
gonna it will be something slightly
different
so it won't always be creative for
instance and I guess that was one of the
reasons I was kind of excited to join
both son is that the retail element is
something that is actually works across
all different types of entity you know
whether we're talking about luxury
Brands fashion houses
beverages kind of like luxury drinks
brands or cars all of these different
sectors already have e-commerce as part
of their structure so it makes absolute
sense that they would explore what
decentralized Commerce looks like and
how that's different how soon or how
quickly they
adopt or understand what the opportunity
is there I guess that's kind of my job
is that you know I need to be able to
like communicate that or help them
identify those opportunities but um that
those are the conversations that I'm
super excited to have you know there are
players in the space that have already
kind of activated they might have
entered their kind of like web 3
strategy with one understanding and now
maybe that they're kind of more closely
involved in the space in the community
you know maybe they're going to be
exploring or thinking about other
opportunities now
um and I totally think that
decentralized Commerce is should really
be one of those priorities because it's
something that can happen very quickly
like I say because e-commerce is already
absolutely part of what how they operate
and what they do they're selling
physical product and that's what both
one does you know enables the transfer
of physical Goods using blockchain
technology yeah I love that I'm going to
kind of double down on this question and
maybe you're response will will have a
lot of elements of of what you just said
but like I said I came into the space in
2017 and and back then you know the
whole thing was blockchain can be used
to disrupt Supply chains right so you
know if you would have asked me back
then how is Porsche going to get
involved in web3 and blockchain I would
have thought that they would have used
for some reason a decentralized database
that you know interrupted their supply
chain processes yeah and maybe decrease
the costs but you know lo and behold
earlier this year they launched an nft
series
so with these Brands what are they
really looking at are they looking at
everything are they trying to look at
utility like for supply chain are they
starting to look beyond that and explore
what nfts can offer can you just maybe
shed a little bit more insight into that
are they looking more creative are they
looking more utility I think it's
everything I think they are gen having a
very general overview of what's free I
think they're trying to sort of
understand where the you know different
opportunities for and how it aligns with
their current you know points of focus
so for someone like Porsche really like
building out their community and you
know showcasing that they have this
incredibly engaged community in terms of
push you how you have this like whole
journey of a collector which I had no
idea and it's super exciting and really
interesting you know that essentially
you start with with your you know your
very first push should be this X model
and you know there's always like catalog
of events that is supposed to take place
as a collector so yeah no I kind of love
the fact that people are using web 3 and
nfts as a storytelling tool also so
that's you know it's highlighting a
story that already existed within the
brand and I think we'll activate and
engage a totally new audience for them
yeah I agree I want to take one quick
step back before we jump into more kind
of diving into digitals or Digi physical
items and boson yeah 100 we did start
working very closely with Brands Mattel
was one of the conversations that we
were engaged with and Wednesday ended up
working with a different toy
manufacturer and so there was definitely
a lot of live conversation around how
digital assets could be connected to
physical and I love the fact for
instance that Barbie and Mattel did
actually go out and did a collaboration
with one of the leading women's nft
projects both Beauties so that was very
cool to see
um but yeah absolutely we were
definitely having conversations but with
like Brands and around how to connect
and and that you know at that time there
really wasn't a way of doing it in a
very seamless environment it was very
much like you're going to click out and
you're going to go over to the standard
kind of e-commerce checkout Solution on
the Brand's own website and so you were
kind of losing that web3 magic as soon
as you did that so yeah at that time
there really wasn't a solution for Digi
physical so moving forward I was at a
consensus in Austin and we had these
rings that have these nfcs that are
inside of them and you could go around
the booth that I was representing the
Neo booth and you could scan your rings
and have an nft updated that added a new
element so this was the first time that
a lot of folks got to interact with the
physical and the digital realm so for
this instance while we're scanning these
rings and having this nft dynamically
update the way I kind of understand
these fidgetal or Digi physical items
that will be used in the future is for
things like payments like think about
how everybody uses their cell phones to
tap and pay for everything
given the role you have and the view you
have what's the future for Digi physical
items are they going to be used for
proving provenance are they going to be
used for parts of a supply chain are
they going to be used for making
payments what do you think is the future
so interesting and I love the the ring
project I saw that you were doing that
at consensus it was a lizard wasn't it
yes kind of like this generative
contract I thought that was super cool
one of my favorite nft projects was an
artist called George I think they were
called tazards which is a tezos kind of
like pfp collected it was very cool
um but just to answer your question in
terms of like did you physicals you know
we already see great use cases with how
g-money is like activating his admit one
audience and developing his 90cc fashion
brand
we see Adidas doing a ton of interesting
things and obviously Nike have
launched.swoosh I think how the new sort
of community sector the kind of develop
there's going to be big conversations
for sure around co-creation so one of
the opportunities that I really think is
exciting is this potential for
co-creation and therefore co-ip
ownership it's one of the sort of you
know big strands of like web3 with FiFi
zero projects where you actually you
know own the IP for your digital asset
whereas I think we're going to start to
see that now in the physical space also
but really you know the unique thing
that boson does is connect that digital
and physical item together and it does
that through a series of deep Tech smart
contracts so you can think of it almost
like Airbnb the way that the seller will
get paid out once the transaction has
been completed so it's only on the
receipt of the physical item has been
redeemed that the seller will be paid
out so there is complete trustless
Security in place so you'll receive your
item or get your money back and that's
because the based on protocol acts as
this smart contract layer this
infrastructure to enable this
decentralized transaction so that's
what's kind of unique about how boson
operates yeah I have tons of questions
but our time is is running short so one
of the things that you know coming from
the class of 2017 there was still this
kind of Cipher Punk protect your privacy
sort of ethos so how does boson deal
with that you know I don't necessarily
want my public wallet to be associated
with my private physical address so what
are the steps that boson takes to kind
of protect the end user and
differentiate and separate their
identity from their public wallet that's
a very good question I would definitely
need to refer to our brilliant CTO and
CPO Nation to creator to give you a good
answer on that one no problem so then
just two more quick questions you
recently hosted a webinar entitled
decoding the future of Commerce what was
one of the key takeaways that you took
from that conversation well we had some
amazing guests on we were very fortunate
to have Nick here from travel up
group and soul mates join us and Nick
leads Innovation for childhood Group
which is a group that hosts all of the
luxury Brands across the Middle East
they're incredible but he's also
launched his own awesome like sneaker
digital physical sneaker brand called
soul mates Simone was going to join us
but her flight got canceled so that was
really unfortunate and then we also had
um Marquez from archants actually
Marquez was a a great example because
he's recently joined both on protocol as
a gallerist based in Paris representing
incredible fine artist painters
photographers so I'm guessing that the
takeaway is really from the webinar
really are the nft kind of like phase I
would say and it's obviously not a phase
but we definitely had like you know a
huge period of growth over the last two
years that nft kind of like phase is
developing and growing into
something into I'm just trying to order
my thoughts because it's really about
how it's evolving so the nft Space is
really evolving where we've seen you
know these communities have been
developed in this very organic way with
you know real transparency and real
Community engagement and genuine kind of
like cross-pollination of ideas and
Concepts and you know the next stage for
this conversation I think is in this
Commerce layer is where we're able to
kind of like create the brands that are
going to kind of be huge in the next 20
years I think I do I genuinely think
we're at a stage where we are going to
start to see you know digital fashion
brands that are able just more agile or
able to activate more quickly you know
we're already seeing Superstars like
dress X and the fabricant really take
advantage of their early adoption of
web3 the fabric and just did an amazing
collaboration with Heist nobody for
instance in Paris for menswear fashion
week last week then created their first
physical jacket you know they've been
able to operate very very quickly a lot
of luxury houses do not have that luxury
actually is the luxury to be able to
move at speed so I think we're going to
see you know this this new wave of a
brand designers artists creators That's
my kind of Full Circle moment because
empowering those artists and creators
with these tools is what I'm really
excited about that's why I've always
done throughout my kind of like creative
career is enable artists and creators to
develop in a way that puts their work in
front of new audiences so yeah it's it's
I use the word exciting a lot but I am
genuinely so excited about a lot of
stuff Dylan it's not Andrew no I hear it
with your background in in helping
individual creators and creatives and
then kind of this passion you're
bringing to Big Brands who are slowly
onboarding into the web through space
there's this connection that needs to be
there that can provide these creatives
you've established their own communities
and to provide that intersection for big
Brands and as you were speaking I didn't
get Bitcoin until or if until I bought
it in 2017 I didn't get at nfts until I
got my first one in 2020 and I didn't
understand what physical digital items
fidgetals is what we're calling them I
didn't understand what that intersection
looked like until I used it earlier this
year so we're clearly at a place right
now where once people kind of get their
hands dirty and start to understand the
benefits that blockchain and web3 can
provide them then it's really easy to
onboard them because they've kind of
bought in themselves exactly yeah I've
had that first experience exactly so I'm
really excited to see the melding that
boson protocol provides creators
creatives big Brands and kind of using
the physical and the digital as the
realm to provide the Elixir to mix these
two so moving forward what's the best
way to keep up to date with you or with
boson protocol
okay that's a good question thank you
obviously Twitter and Linkedin are the
great babe to finder so we are both on
protocol on Twitter and also both
unbreakable on LinkedIn well Holly you
have to run so thanks for for going a
few minutes over to keep chatting with
us it was great that we crossed our
paths at consensus even though we didn't
necessarily get to have an interview or
a chat then but it's nice to know that
this small little world of ours uh we
were able to to share some time in the
physical space together and I was really
excited to have this conversation and um
I can't wait to keep up to date with
what's going on with you and what's
going on with boson providing a a Digi
physical Marketplace hey thank you so
much Dylan I really appreciate it an
awesome conversation cheers have a great
day
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was super cool
to hear about Holly's background with
both creatives and big Brands and how
she's kind of acting as a melding of the
Two Worlds also personally I really
enjoyed being a part of the one band
activation at consensus this year so it
was really cool to hear Holly's thoughts
on the fidgetal activation and what
excited her overall the smart economy
podcast has been showcasing a lot of
guests that are acting as a signal for
Big Picture power shifts and it was
really interesting to hear Holly's
insights into the mind of the Big Brand
and how they're thinking about
blockchain technology on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time
[Music]